# Programming a Guessing Game

* To obtain user input and then print the result as output, we need to bring the io (input/output) library into scope--or the rust compilter will inject it automatically. The io library comes from the standard library (which is known as std): `use std::io;`
    * By default, Rust brings only a few types into the scope of every program in the prelude. If a type you want to use isn’t in the prelude, you have to bring that type into scope explicitly with a use statement.
    > The prelude is the list of things that Rust automatically imports into every Rust program. It's kept as small as possible, and is focused on things, particularly traits, which are used in almost every single Rust program.
    > On a technical level, Rust inserts
    >
    > `extern crate std;`
    > into the crate root of every crate, and
    >
    > `use std::prelude::v1::*;`
    > into every module.

## Variables

* use `let` to create a variable
    * `let <name>: <type>`
    * `const <name>: <type>`
* UTF-8 encoded

* variables are immutable by default.
* add `mut` before variable name to make it mutable--`let mut guess`

## Result
* generic enum
* encode error-handling information
* types are enumerations
    > An enumeration is a type that can have a fixed set of values, and those values are called the enum’s variants.
* lots of types named Result in strd lib
* variants either:
    * `Ok` -- contains value
    * `Error` -- contains info about how or why the operation failed
* instances of `io::Result` have a `expect` method
    * will crash the program and display the error message passed as an argument to expect

## stdin

* `stdin()` returns an instance of `std::io::Stdin` type
    * represents a handleto standard input on terminals
* `read_line` returns user input as a string
    * returns `io::Result`
    * An `Err` from `read_line` would an error from the OS
* `&` in argument indicates the argument is a reference
    * immutable
    * `mut` after `&` with no spaces makes the argument reference mutable followed by variable name to store the result in--`&mut guess`
    * put secondary method or expect on a new line because its easier to read the code

## println!
* macro
* `{}` is a placeholder
    * can add more than one--infinite
    * second argument in `println!` replaces the first placeholder, third replaces second, and so on...

## Generating a Secret Number

* no built in number generator in Rust--as of April, 7 2019
* use `rand` crate
    * add it to `Cargo.toml` file under dependencies
> In the Cargo.toml file, everything that follows a header is part of a section that continues until another section starts. The [dependencies] section is where you tell Cargo which external crates your project depends on and which versions of those crates you require.

> Cargo understands Semantic Versioning

> The number 0.3.14 is actually shorthand for ^0.3.14, which means “any version that has a public API compatible with version 0.3.14.”

> Cargo fetches the latest versions of everything from the registry, which is a copy of data from Crates.io. Crates.io is where people in the Rust ecosystem post their open source Rust projects for others to use.

> After updating the registry, Cargo checks the [dependencies] section and downloads any crates you don’t have yet. In this case, although we only listed rand as a dependency, Cargo also grabbed a copy of libc, because rand depends on libc to work. After downloading the crates, Rust compiles them and then compiles the project with the dependencies available.

> When you build a project for the first time, Cargo figures out all the versions of the dependencies that fit the criteria and then writes them to the Cargo.lock file. When you build your project in the future, Cargo will see that the Cargo.lock file exists and use the versions specified there rather than doing all the work of figuring out versions again. This lets you have a reproducible build automatically. In other words, your project will remain at 0.3.14 until you explicitly upgrade, thanks to the Cargo.lock file.

> When you do want to update a crate, Cargo provides another command, update, which will ignore the Cargo.lock file and figure out all the latest versions that fit your specifications in Cargo.toml. If that works, Cargo will write those versions to the Cargo.lock file.

> But by default, Cargo will only look for versions larger than 0.3.0 and smaller than 0.4.0.

* Add `use rand` to use a crate as an external dependency--can call anything inside rand.
* add `::Rng` to `use rand` to use methods defined by the trait `Rng`, or any trait an external crate defines
    * defines methods random number generator implement

* `cargo doc --open` will build documentation provided by all local dependcies and open in the browser

## Comparing the Guess to the Secret Number

* bring `Ordering` into scope: `std::cmp::Ordering`
    * variants are: `Less`, `Greater`, and `Equal`
    * enum like `Result`
* `cmp` method compares 2 values, takes a reference to the value being compared
    * returns `Ordering` enum
* use `match` to decide what to do next

## match

* made up of arms
* consists of a pattern and the code to execute matching the value given to the match expression
* sequentially checked

## Looping

* use `loop` and wrap looped code with curly braces, to exit use `break`

```
loop {
    match x {
        Ok(num) => num,
        Err(_) => continue,
    }
    match x.cmp(&y) {
        Ordering::Less => doX(),
        Ordering::Greater => doY(),
        Ordering::Equal => {
            doX();
            doY();
            break;
        }
    }
}
```

## Error handling

* use `match` on Result
* `_` in `Err()` says match all errors

```
match x.trim().parse() {
    Ok(num) => num.
    Err(_) => {
        //log code and continue, etc...
    }
}

```