# Enums and Pattern Matching

_Enums_ aka _enumerations_ define a type by enumerating its possbile values/_variants_

- `Option` is an enum

`match` makes it easy to run different code for different values of an enum

> Enums are a feature in many languages, but their capabilities differ in each language. Rust’s enums are most similar to _algebraic data types_ in functional languages, such as F#, OCaml, and Haskell.

## Defining an Enum

declared with: enum <name> {
<variant1>
<variant2>
...
}

ex:

```rust
enum IpAddrKind {
  V4,
  V6
}
```

### Enum Values

- namespaced under name
- can be grabbed with `::`
- can hold data with `(<type>)`, or anonymous structs
- easier to define datatypes rather than using multiple structs
- can define methods with `impl`

## The `Option` Enum and Its Advantages Over Null Values

> The `Option` type is used in many places because it encodes the very common scenario in which a value could be something or it could be nothing. Expressing this concept in terms of the type system means the compiler can check whether you’ve handled all the cases you should be handling; this functionality can prevent bugs that are extremely common in other programming languages.
>
> Rust does not have nulls, but it does have an enum that can encode the concept of a value being present or absent.

```rust
// <T> is generic type parameter
// meaning Some(T) can hold any data type
enum Option<T> {
    Some(T),
    None,
}
```

- included in the prelude; you don’t need to bring it into scope explicitly

ex:

```rust
let some_number = Some(5);
let some_string = Some("a string");

let absent_number: Option<i32> = None;
```

When setting a variable to `None`, type must be annotated with `Option<Type>`, ex: `Option<i32>`

- not the equivalent to the type passed into it/convert to perform operations

> In general, in order to use an `Option<T>` value, you want to have code that will handle each variant.

## The `match` Control Flow Operator

> allows you to compare a value against a series of patterns and then execute code based on which pattern matches.
> Patterns can be made up of literal values, variable names, wildcards, and many other things

can match any type, where as if does only booleans,

branch is called an _arm_, each can execute code

### Patterns that Bind to Values

- enum values are passed to match _arm_

### Matching with `Option<T>`

return `None` when `None` is passed, and `Some` when `Some(x)` is passed

### Matches Are Exhaustive

all possible enum values must be matched.

> we must exhaust every last possibility in order for the code to be valid.

### The `_` Placeholder

- behaves like a default, matches everything else

## Concise Control Flow with `if let`

> The `if let` syntax lets you combine if and let into a less verbose way to handle values that match one pattern while ignoring the rest.

```rust
if let <MatchValue> = <VariableToMatch> {
  println!("three");
}
```

ex:

```rust
if let Some(3) = some_u8_value {
  println!("three");
}
```

> The syntax `if let` takes a `pattern` and an `expression`separated by an equal sign. It works the same way as a `match`, where the expression is given to the match and the pattern is its first arm.
>
> We can include an `else` with an `if let`.

ex:

```rust
let mut count = 0;
if let Coin::Quarter(state) = coin {
  println!("State quarter from {:?}!", state);
} else {
  count += 1;
}
```
