# Ownership

System through which memory is managed in Rust and is checked at compile time

Solves: tracking used data stored on heap, reducing duplicate data stored on heap, and removing unused data on heap

## Ownership Rules

> - Each value has a variable that’s called its owner.
> - There can only be one owner at a time.
> - When the owner goes out of scope, the value will be dropped.

### Variable Scope

A scope is the range within a program for which an item is valid. Specified by the block the variable is declared in.

## The `String` type

- allocated on heap
- created with `from` method on `String`--`String::from("hello")`
  
> The double colon (`::`) is an operator that allows us to namespace this particular `from` function under the `String` type rather than using some sort of name like `string_from`.

### String Literal

- `String::new("");`
- immutable
- fast b\c size is known at compile time
- "hardcoded"

## Memory And Allocation

To allocate memory for `String` type on the heap:

1. needs to be requested from OS
2. need a way to return back to OS

on step 1: memory is requested upon calling `String::from`--implemented by high level programming languages

on step 2: GC languages keep track of unused memory and free's it. historically its difficult to manage memory without a GC. Rust does this automatically without a GC once a variable goes out of scope its freed. Rust calls a special function called `drop` at the closing curly bracket--AKA RAII in C++

### Ways Variables and Data Interact: Move

- objects are copied but with references instead of data
  - variable will be invalidated once the value has moved to an another variable

> Rust will never automatically create “deep” copies of your data. Therefore, any automatic copying can be assumed to be inexpensive in terms of runtime performance.

*double free* error when their are more than one references, and the same memory is being freed multiple times--can lead to memory corruption => potential security vulnerabilities.

### Ways Variables and Data Interact: Copy

- use method `clone` to deep copy `String`

### Stack-Only Data: Copy

- primitive types are copied b\c they can be copied quickly which is why

    ```
    let x = 5;
    let y = x;

    println!("x = {}, y = {}", x, y);
    ```

    is valid

#### `Copy` Trait

can be placed on types stored on the stack, and once a new value will be assigned older values will be still usuable

- can't annotate a variable with `Copy` trait on types which implemented the `Drop` trait
- general rule of thumb: any group of simple scalar values can be `Copy`, and nothing that requires allocation or is some form of resource is `Copy`
  - documentation contains this info
  - Tuples are when they contain primitive types

[adding `Copy` trait](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/appendix-03-derivable-traits.html) to types

## Ownership Functions

behaves similiar to variables

- variables will be moved/copied to the function

ex:
```
fn main() {
    let s = String::from("hello");  // s comes into scope

    takes_ownership(s);             // s's value moves into the function...
                                    // ... and so is no longer valid here

    let x = 5;                      // x comes into scope

    makes_copy(x);                  // x would move into the function,
                                    // but i32 is Copy, so it’s okay to still
                                    // use x afterward

} // Here, x goes out of scope, then s. But because s's value was moved, nothing
  // special happens.

fn takes_ownership(some_string: String) { // some_string comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_string);
} // Here, some_string goes out of scope and `drop` is called. The backing
  // memory is freed.

fn makes_copy(some_integer: i32) { // some_integer comes into scope
    println!("{}", some_integer);
} // Here, some_integer goes out of scope. Nothing special happens.
```

## Return Values and Scope

> Returning values can also transfer ownership

> The ownership of a variable follows the same pattern every time: assigning a value to another variable moves it. When a variable that includes data on the heap goes out of scope, the value will be cleaned up by drop unless the data has been moved to be owned by another variable.

- can use tuples to return and reassign, this is still tedius => References solves this problem